# Flask + Webpack Starter

This repo's goal is to get your project up and running faster.   
It uses Flask for the backend and Vue.js for the frontend, built with Webpack 4.   

> The backend flask structure and setup is [André's Flask template project](https://github.com/andreffs18/flask-template-project), thank you André! 😁


## Getting started

To run this project, make sure you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) installed and running.

After creating a __.env__ file with these variables:
```
APP_ENV=localhost
SECRET_KEY=<SECRET_KEY>
MONGO_DB=your_db_nam
MONGO_DB_TEST=your_test_db_name
```

Then, run the following command:

```shell
docker-compose build;
docker-compose run client npm i;
docker-compose up;
```

This will prepare the containers, install the dependencies, and then run the containers.

Ask someone from the dev team for the `.env` file.

By default, the Flask server runs on port `5005` and the WebPack server runs on `7001`.

Visit [http://localhost:7001/](http://localhost:7001/) and you should see the pages list.

If these ports are an issue for you, feel free to change the `docker-compose.yml` file to expose different ports. You only need to touch the `published` ports.

## Flask Server

### Running commands inside server

Enter python shell

```shell
docker-compose run server python manage.py shell
```

## Frontend

### Installing front-end dependencies using `npm`

To run any `npm` commands inside the container, prefix any npm command with

```shell
$ docker-compose run dev_client <npm-command>
```

Example: Installing [Unbabel UI Library](https://gitlab.com/Unbabel/ui)

```shell
$ docker-compose run dev_client npm i @unbabel/ui
```

This will run `npm` inside the container and save any `package-lock.json` changes back to the repo

### Features
- Compiles Vue.js single file components
- Processes .scss files
- Is ready to test the frontend using Jest
- Has a dev mode that launches a server with livereload
- Has a production mode that compresses the files
- Lints the .vue and .js files
- Adds polyfills using Babel


### Commands
- `docker-compose run client npm run install` to install the dependencies
- `docker-compose run client npm run build` to compile the assets for production
- `docker-compose run client npm run lint` to lint your files
- `docker-compose run client npm run test` to run the tests

The dev server is launched by composer automatically

- `docker-compose run client npm run dev` to launch a dev server with livereload


### Folder structure
We kept the folder structure as flexible as possible, with some quick find and replaces to fix the paths you should be able to move stuff around.
The `/project/static/` will be populated with a `dist` folder with the files ready to be served by Flask.


#### Vue
The `/project/static/src/` folder has 2 relevant folders:
- `/apps/` — for _big-ish_ applications, that are used in one place
- `/components/` — for vue components that are used in multiple places, the LoadingSpinner is a good example, as it might be used in a UserSettings.vue app _and_ in a UserSignup.vue app

This separation might seem overkill, and it might be, depending on the size of your project, but you can always scale it down.

##### Importing stuff on your .vue components
This starter project already has the Unbabel UI Library in its dependencies, you can import it on your Vue component using:

```js
import { Modal, Button } from '@unbabel/ui';
```
for javascript, or for the styles:
```scss
@import '~@unbabel/ui/src/colors';
```

#### Sass
Inside the `/project/static/src/scss/` folder is a possible structure that scales nicely. Put the elements/components that you use frequently inside the `/components/`, add the base styles to the `/base/` folder and the page-specific styles to the `/views/`.
For very small projects you can just compile the `/project/static/src/scss/all.scss` file and use that on all pages, but as soon as you get some complexity (for example if you have a user facing views and admin views), you probably should separate that, or compile each view .scss file.

#### Linking to the assets

**Linking to static files**

```
{{ url_for('static', filename='path-inside-project-static') }}
```

For example `image/logo.png`.

**Linking to static files generated by WebPack**

WebPack will build the files to the `/project/static/dist` folder.

Example:

For any WebPack entry in `webpack.config.js` you will get a file inside the `/project/static/dist/js` folder, plus any other files included in the `js` file, such as `css`, `img`, etc.

```
{{ url_for('static', filename='dist/js/main.bundle.js') }}
```


### Testing
We are using Jest for all tests, with the help of the @vue/test-utils library to test Vue.js components more easily. There is an example file on the `/project/static/tests/specs/` folder, that is ready to test Vuex store, if you have that in your apps.


### Linting
There is really no reason why you shouldn't lint your files: it prevents bugs, makes projects inside the same organization consistent and maintains the overall sanity of the other humans who look at your code.

We use a slightly modified version of [AirBnb's config](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-config-airbnb-base), the biggest difference being the use of Tabs instead of Spaces.
